# Intercultural Studies and their technological uses
In an increasingly globalized and interconnected world, Intercultural Studies is a framework for understanding how cultures interact, influence, and transform one another. Culture itself can be complex to navigate and when studying the interconnectedness of several cultures it becomes even more complex and dynamic. Here, culture is not understood in terms of popular culture solely relying on artistic and textual products like films, music, and books. As an interdisciplinary field mainly situated between the humanities and social sciences, it engages with questions of identity, community, communication, and meanings across cultural boundaries. The focus is on the _between_ where the space of exchange and negotiation happens and cultural _entanglements_ take place. In a world where globalization also introduced the spread of digital technologies, it has also influenced and transformed research practices and academic engagement within Intercultural Studies at large. Examining current tools, emerging technologies, and their implications for critical reflections, digitalization is reshaping not only how to conduct research but also how we think about intercultural relations in a predominantly digitized world. 

To study Intercultural Studies is to delve into a field that offers expertise from several disciplines. It is an area of study that seeks to understand and explore the intricate dynamics between cultures that occur when cultures meet, interact, and influence one another. Rather than limiting the study comparatively, the intercultural perspective focuses on the between where exchange, negotiation, and mutual transformation take place. Being interdisciplinary, the field draws on knowledge and approaches from history, media and literature, and language studies, and the social sciences where organizational aspects are analysed with intercultural approaches. In Intercultural Studies the world is seen as diverse and interconnected in which we all partake in. The multicultural is not exceptional or distant but omnipresent shaping our everyday lives, institutions, and identities. To study cultures, then, also means to study and question our own positionality, assumptions, and cultural background while attempting to understand others.  
When engaging in Intercultural Studies a distinction is necessary as many of the concepts used in academic contexts such as globalization, identity, culture, and hybridity often become part of public debate, where they can become diluted or simplified meanings. Therefore, offering a variety of concepts, interpretive tools, and sensitizing devices to approach intercultural phenomena, help to identity, describe, and interpret how meaning and identity are negotiated across cultural boundaries. The process of an interconnected world is also important to view not as static, but as ongoing and relational. The programme itself investigates sociocultural and linguistic backgrounds, the contemporary world and their roots in history, how conflicts arise and persists, and peace-making processes, power relations, diversity, politics, religion, and gender are also part of what can be the object of investigation.

The introduction of digital tools has evidently impacted how research is conducted in the humanities and social sciences. Digital technologies have introduced new ways of collecting, organizing, and analysing material, as well as new modes of communication and collaboration across cultural and geographical boundaries. One common tool is software for sorting and identifying words, which allow researchers to organize large amounts of qualitative data in an efficient manner. Such programs help optimize time spent by categorizing themes and identifying patterns in language use which is relevant when analysing interviews, discourse, or other cultural artefacts One is CAQDAS (Computer-Assisted Qualitative Data Analysis Software) programme NVivo 12 which was introduced by one lecturer, Mark Ølholm Eaton, in his article “Duelling Commonwealth Family of Nations Metaphors and Britain’s Post-Brexit Global Identity”. The software was used to facilitate a combination of qualitative and quantitative methods.  manage large amounts of data and cross-reference the data of characteristics of speakers and the contents of their debates and speeches, while also identifying distinctive characteristics in metaphors used in relation to the Commonwealth family metaphor (Eaton 2019, 285). Hence engaging in a systematic manner while saving time and resources as manual work of this scale would have been more time-consuming. Similarly, transcription tools have transformed the process of converting audio into text, reducing manual effort and allowing researchers to focus on interpreting their material.
 Another aspect of digitality that is often overlooked as it has become an integrate part of academic work and research is the digital access of online academic libraries and digital databases. Instead of relying on physical material only found in some libraries one can now access digital libraries worldwide. It has become such an essential skill to every field that it is often part of the introduction of the field one sets their foot in during their bachelor’s degree programme. An extension of the library’s expertise on optimizing to spend less time on managing reference lists is also offered by Aarhus University Library such as EndNote20, Zotero, JabRef, and Paperpile (Aarhus University, 2025). Navigating and choosing the right reference system when these are often very different within especially Intercultural Studies as an interdisciplinary field is an opportunity to not having to repeat-edit references to one’s own reference system style. Additionally, video conferencing tools such as Microsoft Teams and Zoom have become integral to academic work. Especially since the COVID-19 pandemic, they have made it possible to communicate and collaborate without physical movement, connecting students, researchers, and institutions across borders. Even if the uses have lessened years later, it still presents as a more visible tool to use as an alternative to moving physically. It was recently used in a live case-study with a large global company where the interviewee was in Singapore and the students in Denmark. 

Among the most debated technological developments today is the rapid rise of Artificial Intelligence (AI). AI is complex as it is both praised and scrutinized. Celebrated for efficiency and potential while simultaneously raising critical questions about ethics and authorship. In the context of Intercultural studies, AI already offers opportunities in automating transcription, translation, or assisting large-scale text analysis. One risk lies in delegating too much to machines. Relying excessively of AI tools can lead to a loss of understanding of the process behind research tasks. If the engagement with detailed interpretive work is declining, the risk can be weakening of the critical thinking. Intercultural Studies depends on the nuance and (self)reflection which cannot be automated. While the rise of AI is not declining, it should be a tool in assisting rather than solely depending on it and being able to take on the task oneself if the tool should be unavailable. Even for people choosing not to adopt these technologies and aiming for more non-technological devices, remaining aware of digital developments is important as it helps navigate the field looking as the digital development is an ongoing process just as culture is, and failing to recognise this can lead to a static understanding and thus limiting the scope of one’s understanding and thought-processes which would only become a faultline. 

Intercultural Studies continues to develop alongside digital transformation and continuously implementation of technologies. Digital tools as CAQDAS, transcription software, and online databases have become integral making it more accessible and efficient. At the same time, emerging technologies like Artificial Intelligence has inserted itself in the current debates inviting reflections on the nature of interpretations, understanding, and critical thinking. The risk of delegating too much to automated systems also points to the necessity of being aware of the underlying processes being our work. Intercultural literacy then should also be paired with technological literacy to be able to understand and implement the changes in the digital space that in turn affects the field of study. Much like culture itself, technology is not a static phenomenon but an ongoing process that continually reshapes how we relate to knowledge and one another. 